NKS & Technical indicators?

STOCK PURCHASING ALGORITHMS

1. SOCIAL TRENDS FIRST

* Determine sound SOCIAL TRENDS first, then look for MARKET TRENDS confirming that investors are buying into the trend. No need to jump the gun.

* The stock market is a leading indicator of the current and near-future state of the global economy. It lets you know what is considered "valuable" to people. If some commodity becomes in short supply or some new product is a "must-have", then the top companies dealing with those products will become more profitable, and it WILL be reflected in their stock price. So ask yourself daily:

What do people want/need right now/in the near future?
What will they NOT want/need ?
What fads are people currently buying into?
Which company is best levered to profit from these current and future trends?
Who are their suppliers, competitors?


Knowing what NOT to invest in is half the battle in investment success.

STOCK MARKET INSIGHTS

The market is ALWAYS right. Any and all market trends, regardless of their irrationality, should be duly noted and faithfully followed. Do not attempt to fight it, or you WILL pay the price. The best you can do is attempt to find an explanation for a trend, and capitalize on it. And since all trends eventually end, one should look for signals of this occurence. Remember: the trend IS your friend, and should be treated as such. Uptrends are friends that reward you with future profits, while downtrends are friends that provide you with fresh opportunities. Always be on the lookout for new trends and friends.

The stock market is a system controlled by people. Fundamentally, it is a universal computation: its input is the state of the world, and its output is the prices of stocks of companies, reflecting their present PERCEIVED profitability in the future world.

Since there are countless variables influencing the stock market, it is impossible to predict it perfectly. Influences include: emotions, hopes, desires, fear, greed, speculation, manipulation, news, media, weather, wars, politics, momentum, economics, indicators, earnings reports, ...

Since stocks trade at prices of PE ratios above 1, this implies that stocks trade at "premium prices" above the current earnings of a company. The higher the PE, the higher the premium. Hence, the PE ratio of a stock can be used to determine both the psychological INVESTOR SENTIMENT of a stock, as well as the perceived GROWTH of a stock. Note that sentiment can quickly wane, as can growth prospects, and it will immediately be reflected in the PE ratio of a stock as the stock's price quickly plummets. This is why growth investing has high risks/rewards.


In the short-term, stock prices are mainly reflections of minor "fast-moving" influences such as daily news releases (current earnings, estimates, progress, etc.), and hence are less important factors in a stock's long-term price. Hence, short-term daily prices of a stock are best used as entry & exit points. Stocks that have long-term potential should be bought on "down days" (perhaps even on negative news), while stocks that have run their course should be sold on "up days", or before major sell-offs occur.

In the long-term however, stock prices are reflections of major "slow-moving" influences such as social trends and the current and future state of the world's economy. Hence, long-term weekly and monthly prices of a stock are best used as indicators of current investing trends. Industries that have long-term potential will have stock prices that will be trending up, while industries that are "out-of-favor" will have stock prices that are trending lower.


People tend to invest in what they "understand". Since more and more young, inexperienced tech-savvy investors are participating in the market, they will tend to invest mostly in tech stocks, regardless of price. Hence this potentially "dumb money" may be the cause of volatility in tech stocks.

MEDIA and the MARKET

The market price cycles and news price cycles never match. In most cases, the daily news available to the public and the average conventional wisdom it creates is already priced in by the market. 

That is why the market is said to "climb a wall of worry". The money making opportunities exist because the news and bearish analysts create a distraction for most average speculators. While majority are busy waiting for the doom to take the market down, the market acts contrary to expectations and offers bullish opportunities.

If you think about it and contemplate why it happens, you can pretty much figure out the information lag between large speculators and small speculators. Take for example the sub prime news, you can be rest assured the big banks and smart speculators were aware of it months in advance and had already acted on that information.

The other more interesting thing about the market is that it offers varying degree of opportunities to different set of speculators for same time period, depending on their skills and methodology. That is why rather than focusing on the markets you should focus on the methods. The markets are not controllable, but your methods are.